Sometimes the best plug in for what you need is free.
There might be a light version of a plug in that has all the functionality you need for your project
or a developer or team of developers who routinely release and update their free plugins.
Let's start by looking at the Wordpress plugin repository at Wordpress dot org slash plugins.
We've been here before in one of our earlier chapters when we were first setting up our brochure site
with a few free plug ins with forty thousand six 630 plug ins inside the repository.
It's not that easy to narrow down what you need and what are the best plugins in the repository.
they started reporting how many active installs there are on each of these plugins as opposed to how
That shows us that plugins will climb to the top which have more and more active installs as opposed
And if the plugin has been abandoned then that number wouldn't have gotten any smaller.
There's a few things we're looking for within a plug in.
And if I load the acus met plug in from automatic and wordpress this is a comment spam filter plugin
that ships with wordpress it comes with every press WordPress org download we would look for in any
Let's look at the number of active installs.
When it was last updated what version of Wordpress it's compatible to and what version of Wordpress
it requires.
Hopefully you're only using the latest version of Wordpress and you keep your clients and your sites
updated.
You can also look below at the ratings and look at the total ratings and you can rate how much value
there are compared to five star ratings.
programming of the plug in.
You can click through to their profile page on WordPress dot org.
Matt Mullenweg one of the original founders and inventors of WordPress.
And you can do a little bit of research on the plug in developers or development teams by going through
those links there.
You can also look at the support page within WordPress dot org.
These tabs across the top of the content area but below the image and the tagline of the plug in can
plugin actually support it and reply to these posts which are questions and topics by the public who's
Let's go back to the Wordpress or plug ins page and do a search for a common type of plug in contact
Here you can see that there are a whole slew of contact form plug ins available for free in the Wordpress
Now if you go through and browse them the first thing I usually look at are how many active installs
does it have.
And I can see that I've got a hundred thousand here on the contact form seven honeypot that the contact
Here's 8000.
Not bad.
I'm looking at 10 right here 40000 30000.
So if we only pick from the ones that have the most active installs.
The second thing I'd look at is the last updated date this contact form 7 pop up response plug in has
last been updated 2 years ago.
Not so good.
Not even for version 4 of WordPress.
This one is a contact form 7 pop up response for when somebody hits the submit button.
It will display a validation message like your message was sent successfully in a pop up interesting
I just got a free version of a plugin that does this exact thing pop up messages for a contact form
As one of their freebies I think it costs 17 bucks or something.
Anyway if you do click through to a plug in that's been updated more than two years ago it will even
The plug in has not been updated in more than two years and it may not be supported by the developer
Let's look at another category of plug ins.
We've done this before.
For Google Analytics there's another group of plug ins where there's a lot of different plug ins in
this plug in type again a lot of them have thousands or hundreds of thousands of active installs.
And those are the ones that I would choose.
I know that we used Google Analytics by monster insights in our earlier video.
We also have the Google Analytics editor which if we open up the Google Analytics later is powered by
company and we get into using them later in this course.
But this is an example of an excellent plug in.
That's got plenty of installs.
They spend their own time and money keeping it updated compatible with the latest version of Wordpress
because they hope that by using this plug in you'll also look at their other paid offerings.
This is how a lot of the greatest plugins inside the plugin repository get support from development
There are either light versions that have a limited set of functions or not every function is powered
and they also might have ADD ons that you can place if you look at the new commerce plug in which commerce
But in any case it's still a plug in at this time.
are also a lot of paid add ons from wew.
of the add ons that you need later.
So there's nothing wrong with using a light version of a plug in as long as it gives you the functionalities
that you need.
It's usually supported by a development team that will keep it updated with updates in wordpress.
Here's one that we're going to be able to experience in this course.
with my own sites and with client work.
sandbox and we'll be playing with it later in this course.
But Thomas Griffin here does offer a light version and it is an excellent plug in.
It just doesn't come with every add on that you might want inside of a slider plug in.
That's supported by a development team and it's updated often as Wordpress updates.
One more thing you should know you don't necessarily have to go to the Wordpress dot org slash plug
But if you're within Wordpress and logged in if you go to plug ins and add new it's going to open all
the same information as you can find in the Wordpress dot org plug in repository itself including if
It will open up a modal window in front of your own WordPress installation.
Pulling information from the Web site like the description and some of those tabs across the top the
well as all this essential information when the plug in was last updated and what version it requires
Then of course you can install it right into your Wordpress installation with the button right there.
I've already got the latest version of acus met installed.
But what if I wanted to install a bird jetpack by WordPress dotcom I could hit the install but now or
Right within my wordpress dashboard and then I can scroll down and install.
free plug in from the Wordpress repository.
We looked at a few of the most popular plugin types and found a couple of the best and you saw how you
Next we'll return to the locally hosted photography site we've been working with and do some assessments